# Java-Roulette-Game

# Exercise A - Simple Java Methods – Part 1

1.	Create a new BlueJ project on your network drive called week2, and in that project create a class called Device. DELETE ALL CODE and start typing your class from scratch.

2. Create a class attribute for the brand of the Device (use a String), and an attribute for the price (use a double).

3. Create a constructor for Device with two parameters. The first line should look like this:

Device(String theBrand, double thePrice)

4. Write a procedure called activate() that prints a message on the screen when the device is switched on. NOTE: If you create an Apple device the message should be “Welcome… Apple”. If you create a Samsung device the message should be “Welcome… Samsung”.

Use this code to help you:

void activate()
{
	
}
 
# Exercise B - Simple Java Methods – Part 2

1.	Create a second class called TestDevice using the code below:

class TestDevice
{
    		TestDevice()
    		{

		}
	}
	
2.	In the class TestDevice, create TWO different device objects called dev1 and dev2. 

3.	Now ‘call’ the activate() method for each device object so the user can see the device switching on. (HINT: see TestFriend from last week).


4.	Compile your classes, then run the program. Do you see both activation on messages?


# Exercise C - The Java API (Java Libraries) – Class Activity

1. Open the website located at: http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/api/

2. Locate the package java.lang (packages are listed in the top left corner)

3. Inside java.lang there is a class Math (you will find this in the Class Summary).  Locate this class and open the page to read more detail about it. What does the class Math provide?

4. Now locate the method random() (you will find this in the Method Summary). What does the random() method do?  Write down an example of what it produces.


Usage example: code that calls the random() method:
Math.random(); // random() is preceeded with the class name 
// Math and .

5. Locate the System class in the Java API (http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/api/).  Where have we used this class before?  Identify which parts of the System class we have used already in our programs.
 
# Exercise D – The Lucky Roulette Game! – Individual but with Help  

 

# Introduction:
# This week we start to build a more complex program, and will continue to build it next week. When we are finished, it will be an exciting game of chance between two players !  Who will have the highest score?  Watch your tutor demonstrate the finished program…

To get started: Open the Week 2 Code Example from the lecture – keep this example open to help you. 

1. Create a new class called Roulette and add it to your week2 project - DELETE ALL CODE and start typing your class from scratch.

2. A Roulette has 4 class attributes: playerName, maxScore, colourA and colourB. Add code to the top of the class Roulette that declares these attributes. What data type is best for each?

3. NEW: In the Roulette class, create an alternate constructor that has 4 input parameters, one for the player’s name, maximum score, and one for each colour (HINT: use different variable names to the class attributes e.g. theColourA). Now use the parameters to initialise the value of the attributes in the body of the constructor. 

4. Write a procedure called displayColours() that will display the two colours of the roulette wheel on the screen. Challenge: Can you display the two colours on the same line in the output?
Example output:
Colour A is: Yellow and Colour B is: Blue

5. Write a procedure called spin() that will use the Math.random() method and multiply the random number by the class attribute maxScore, then display the final amount on screen.
Example output:
Congratulations! You have spun a 4.37383737

** NOTE: The number you see will have lots of decimal places, that’s OK for now.
** You may introduce any number of local variables you like, but you cannot add more class attributes 
** Remember to use Math.random()* maxScore;

6. Write a new class called TestRoulette that creates 2 roulette wheels (one for each player) and calls the methods displayColours() and spin() for each Roulette object. NOTE: set the maxScore value the same for the two Roulette objects so the game is fair !!!


Execution test:
What is the largest amount generated by a roulette wheel? 
